# Stock_Price_Prediction_with_Twitter_Sentiment_Analysis

The main objective of the project is to develop a predictive model that leverages sentiment analysis of Twitter data to predict stock market prices. By extracting and analyzing the sentiments expressed in tweets related to specific stocks, the project aims to build algorithms that can identify patterns and correlations between sentiment and stock prices to improve prediction accuracy. Companies usually hire investment professionals to analyze stocks data and provide insights and guidance on financial decisions. With the help of machine learning, large amounts of historical stocks data can be studied and analyzed to predict stock movements with greater precision within limited financial commitment and time. In today's digital era, social media has become easily accessible to anyone with internet access, providing a platform for anyone to express their opinions. When it comes to news about a particular company, these collective opinions expressed on social media can change the company’s reputation. Consequently, the positive or negative sentiments expressed on social media platforms regarding a company can potentially affect their stock prices. The motivation behind the idea to use Twitter data is that it can provide access to vast amount of real-time information from public. This project involves stocks data collection using Yahoo Finance API, Twitter data collection using SNScrape that uses Twitter API and web scraping, exploratory data analysis, sentiment analysis to extract sentiments in tweets, different classic machine learning and neural network-based algorithms to predict stock prices and performance evaluation of the models. Ultimately, the main objective is to build an accurate and efficient model that can predict stock prices. 

This project highlights the potential of leveraging social media data for financial analysis. I explored the whether and how sentiment analysis can help in accurate stock price prediction. I used stocks data and sentiment scores derived from tweets as a predictor for future stock prices. Out of the three models that were trained to predict stock prices based on sentiment scores and historical stock data, CNN-LSTM-based Neural Network model showed the most promising results, followed by the Random Forest Regressor. By incorporating sentiment scores derived from tweets along with historical stock data, we can improve the accuracy and reliability of stock price prediction models. This has potential implications for investors and financial analysts, providing them with additional insights and tools for making informed investment decisions. The combination of sentiment analysis and machine learning/deep learning techniques, particularly the CNN-LSTM-based Neural Network, holds promise for accurate stock price prediction.

